Apache Struts
Apache Struts is a free open-source framework for creating Java web applications. 

Web applications differ from conventional websites in that web applications can create a dynamic response. Many websites deliver only static pages. A web application can interact with databases and business logic engines to customize a response. 

Web applications based on JavaServer Pages sometimes commingle database code, page design code, and control flow code. In practice, we find that unless these concerns are separated, larger applications become difficult to maintain. 

One way to separate concerns in a software application is to use a Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture. The Model represents the business or database code, the View represents the page design code, and the Controller represents the navigational code. The Struts framework is designed to help developers create web applications that utilize a MVC architecture. 

<h1>The framework provides three key components: </h1>

A "request" handler provided by the application developer that is mapped to a standard URI. 
A "response" handler that transfers control to another resource which completes the response. 
A tag library that helps developers create interactive form-based applications with server pages. 
The framework's architecture and tags are buzzword compliant. Struts works well with conventional REST applications and with nouveau technologies like SOAP and AJAX. 
<h1>Architecture Overview</h1>
 
All incoming requests are intercepted by the Struts servlet controller. The Struts Configuration file struts-config.xml is used by the controller to determine the routing of the flow. This flows consists of an alternation between two transitions: From View to Action A user clicks on a link or submits a form on an HTML or JSP page. The controller receives the request, looks up the mapping for this request, and forwards it to an action. The action in turn calls a Model layer (Business layer) service or function. 
From Action to View After the call to an underlying function or service returns to the action class, the action forwards to a resource in the View layer and a page is displayed in a web browser. 
<font color="green">www.struts.org.com</font>